docs/ten_agent/customize_your_agent.md, before:

---
layout:
  title:
    visible: true
  description:
    visible: false
  tableOfContents:
    visible: true
  outline:
    visible: true
  pagination:
    visible: true
---

# Customize your agent


## Using the power of TEN Graph Designer(Beta)

<figure><img src="../assets/gif/graph_designer.gif" alt=""><figcaption></figcaption></figure>

TEN Graph Designer is a powerful tool that allows you to customize the behavior and responses of the TEN Agent without needing to write code. This approach is recommended for its ease of use.

In the canvas, you can design your flow by dragging and dropping nodes and connecting them with lines.

Since the TEN Graph Designer is in Beta now, there are some limitations. For example, the graph you are working on needs to match the graph you are testing with. Otherwise, the changes you make will not be reflected in the results.

## Changing the code yourself

If you feel comfortable editing the code yourself, you are more than welcome to do so. In `agents/property.json`, find the corresponding graph and manipulate any values you want.

After making changes, simply refresh the page and connect to the agent, and the changes will take effect.

Commit message:

docs: updating wording and getting rid of graph designer section (#387)
* Updating wording
* Getting rid of graph designer section

docs/ten_agent/customize_your_agent.md, after:

---
layout:
  title:
    visible: true
  description:
    visible: false
  tableOfContents:
    visible: true
  outline:
    visible: true
  pagination:
    visible: true
---

# Customize your agent


## Using Playground

<figure><img src="https://github.com/TEN-framework/docs/blob/main/assets/gif/module-example.gif?raw=true" alt=""><figcaption></figcaption></figure>

Once you have the playground running at [ localhost:3000 ](http://localhost:3000), you can customize your agent through three simple steps:

1. Graph Type Selection
   - Choose between Voice Agent, Realtime Agent, or other types

2. Module Selection
   - Pick a module that matches your chosen graph type

3. Extension Configuration
   - Select extensions and configure their API keys
   - Adjust settings as needed

The playground provides an intuitive interface to connect these components without coding.

## Changing the code yourself

If you feel comfortable editing the code yourself, you are more than welcome to do so. In `agents/property.json`, find the corresponding graph and manipulate any values you want.

After making changes, simply refresh the page and connect to the agent, and the changes will take effect.
